Initiative-driven Project Backlog.
To me, the most critical, important,
and strategic projects should be initiative-driven.
Sure,
there'll be projects coming from operations or other parts of the
organization based on your demand resource thresholds,
but this is where the most high-value projects should likely originate,
high value and low risk.
Initiatives drive projects.
An initiative is what we want to achieve,
like grow revenue by 15%,
and the projects are the engines on how we are going to get there.
Let's explore further.
Let's talk about the relationship between all of these backlogs for a moment.
We have the initiatives backlog and basically just one
backlog in the company since it is linked right up with the
CEO or the Board of Directors.
We have our operations and project backlogs, many of them.
So the initiatives backlog should include,
and consider, and integrate, and drive all of the other backlogs.
There should not be any disconnect here in a well-run and healthy company.
If there is a disconnect, then resources may not be optimally allocated.
People may not be sure of why or what they're working on and the
direction of the company may be fuzzy or confusing,
and a host of other problems may arise as well.
Here is a technique to help you groom your project candidates.
We're going to come up with a grid.
The scale on the left is going to be business value and the scale on the bottom
is going to be our ability in IT to execute successfully.
So the business value is low to high, as the arrow shows,
and for our risk or our ability to execute successfully or not is left to right.
Now these dots represent our placement of potential project candidates.
Each dot represents a project and where it sits was based on
discussions with the team on its business value or our
ability to execute successfully.
So on the lower-left quadrant, they are four projects of low value and high risk.
We would likely exclude to do those.
Up in the upper-left quadrant, we have high value and high risk.
We may revisit or exclude those, not sure yet,
and then the quadrant on the right is low value and low risk,
and again, we may revisit or exclude those particular four projects,
but the real target we're looking for of course is high value and low risk,
project approved.
So we have four projects that we want to move forward with right away.
Now we may want to further look at the yellow-box quadrants: high value,
high risk, or low-value, low risk.
I would suggest next might be high value, high risk.
I like the high value.
I don't like the high risk, so we may want to revisit that.
Maybe we want to do more analysis, dig in a little deeper,
look back at our attributes.
Why do we think it's high risk?
Maybe we can do things to mitigate that risk,
and maybe we'd find another couple projects that would
ultimately move into the green box.
This is a very easy approach and it's a visual approach that
executives can easily see and understand,
as well as your team.
On the previous slide,
we identified our projects that we'd like to go work on
and kind of narrow down our backlog.
On this slide,
I want to give you a perspective of the backlog and the projects
in work and how they relate to the initiatives,
and again, I like a simple grid.
In the first column, we have our initiative backlog,
second column would be our project backlog,
and the third column will be our projects in work.
So again on the left,
we have build a new cost-efficient aircraft as a major initiative,
and maybe another one that's related is electronic design modernization.
I put these together because I believe the projects may
actually overlap and support both of those.
So in the project backlog,
we can see we have four projects identified that are ready to go.
Oh, by the the way, we have two projects.
Now each of these cards, if you will,
each of these cards may have a whole bunch of information or limited
information or just high-level information so the executives and team members
can quickly glance at this and see where the projects are,
maybe what the budget is and things like that.
In the next row, we have a couple more initiatives.
We have improve employee services, improve return on net assets,
and on-demand financial management.
These three initiatives have a lot of overlap again,
and so we thought we would tie the projects this way.
These three projects are actually supporting all three of those initiatives.
Again, it could be three projects supporting just one initiative,
but I want to show on this slide that projects typically
overlap and support multiple initiatives.
So we have three projects in the project backlog for this row and we have
three projects that are actually in work for this row as well.
So again, at a very high level, it'd be very easy to summarize your initiatives,
summarize the projects that are ready to be worked,
that is your backlog, and also show which projects are in work,
and then you could drill into each one of these colored boxes if you
will and show more status and more scope and more results of what's
happening in each particular project. All right, in the next section, we'll talk about key roles in demand management.